About HRMC
===

Hybrid Reverse Monte Carlo (HRMC) is a computational method stochastically perturbs atomic coordinates to fit a structure to experimental structural data. Typically, this data is a pair distribution function (PDF) that is collected from x-ray, neutron, or electron sources. In particular, electron scattering is advantageous or nanoscale and ultrathin materials because of the high resolution and high scattering cross-section of electrons. As materials become increasingly nanoscale, the ability to experimentally collect scattering information from disordered materials is useful. However, PDFs provide limited information on the atomistic arrangement of atoms.

This is where Reverse Monte Carlo (RMC) comes in. In traditional implementations of RMC, the simulation is designed to gradually fit a computed PDF of a cell to an experimental PDF by way of random atomic hops, according to the standard Metropolis Monte Carlo algorithm. While this approach is effective at matching the experimental and computed PDFs, it can fail to produce physically realistic structures. This flaw is due to the stochastic nature of the algorithm, and the limited chemical information that guides the simulation. Often, users specify coordination number and bond angle ranges, minimum bond distances, and more to try to constrain the simulation sufficiently to produce realistic structures. However, these inputs require the user to possess a high degree of understanding about the system that they are trying to model and the accuracy of the simulated structure depends heavily on these parameters. 

To mitigate the issue of user-selected constraint parameters, HRMC was introduced. In addition to fitting the compute PDF to experimental data, HRMC also includes a Boltzmann-type probability term to account for the energy of the structure. This approach therefore effectively minimizes the structural energy while finding and experimental fit, resulting in more flexible constraints to better allow transition states during atom hopping and has been shown to more accurately reproduce chemically accurate structures.

pyHRMC is a Python implementation of this HRMC algorithm, with several added features. 

Questions or concerns? Contact kme@email.unc.edu